Textseek 1.00
v1∑0  September 2000
 è No history yet!
v1∑01 14th October 2000
 è Improved and debugged pop-up window.  Common filetypes menu now works properly under RISC-OS 3∑5 or greater.
v1∑02 18th October 2000
 è Added progress window.   Moved 'Stop' button to progress window.
v1∑03 22nd October 2000
 è Circumvented weird bug which caused the main menu to pop up when you clicked on radio icons - but only under RISC-OS 3∑5 or greater.
v1∑04 27th October 2000
 è Improved timing of updates in progress window (especially after pressing 'Slower').  Progress window now closes if throwback handler cannot be found.
 è Throwback now displays last line of text correctly even if it is unterminated.

Textseek 1.10
v1∑10  30th November 2000
 è By request:
   è Progress window now updated with every file scanned instead of every directory.
   è Hourglass displayed during single-tasking when searching large files.
   è Quick and nasty option provided to check whether you really want to search large (>10Mb) files - error box is displayed before loading file.   Size is currently set by a system variable in !Textseek.!Boot.   (This really calls for a proper configuration window and a 'Search file'/'Stop'/'Ignore file'/'Ignore all' multiple-option alert box while running - ask me very, very nicely and I might get round to doing it.)
   è Filetypes menu is now sorted by filetype name instead of by filetype number, and the pop-up window now displays filetypes in the order they were selected rather than in the order they appear on the menu.   (You wouldn't *believe* the amount of time it took to get this working!)
 è Stupid bug corrected where reloading a Config file could cause the 'Save' button to be inverted in error.
v1.11  1st December 2000
 è Program no longer crashes if it encounters a filetype name longer than 9 characters (illegal by the way) though the results in the pop-up window aren't very pretty if you actually select such a filetype....
 è Machine code error handler no longer invoked if you attempt to quit while a search is still running....!
 è Fixed bug causing Textseek always to throwback to line 1 when searching files less than 1024 bytes long.
 è 'Search' icon no longer goes blank when activated by pressing RETURN rather than by clicking on it.
v1∑12  26th December 2000
 è Minor tweak to allow the use of a path variable in the form Director: rather than <Director$Path> in 'Search path' icon.
v1∑13  5th January 2001
 è Fixed icons in pop-up window which were hideously broken (again).

Textseek 1.20
v1∑20 12th March 2001
 è Added wildcard support
 è Moved search options into a separate window
 è Added support for separate 'exclude list' of filetypes
 è Main window now closes while search is running
 è Clicking on iconbar during search will bring progress window to front
 è Titlebar of progress window displays string being searched for
 è Icons in progress window display setting of whole-word, wildcard and case-sensitive options
 è Upgraded DrWimp library version to 3∑58
 è Had to increase Wimpslot to 56k
 è Fixed bug causing main window to claim the input focus when dragged.
 è Reinstated error trapping for leafnames longer than 128 characters(!) which had somehow gone missing....
v1∑21 2nd April 2001
 è Fixed bug in progress window template, that caused minor corruption of icon data when searching for a long string.
v1∑22 14th April 2001
 è Fixed bug in machine code causing valid matches to be rejected in the case when the whole-word option was used and the wildcard '*' matched exactly zero characters.
 è Changed display of case option in progress window to make it more intuitive - icon is now greyed-out when search is case-insensitive and displayed when search is case-sensitive.
v1∑23 26th April 2001
 è Fixed bug in machine code causing valid matches to be rejected if they were immediately preceded by invalid partial matches, i.e. 'muri' would fail to match 'murmuring'
 è Machine code can now cope with double '*'s ò no need to strip them out from BASIC.
 è Various other tweaks to machine code and to error-trapping.
v1∑24 5th July 2001
 è Finally got round to implementing 'Cancel' button in config window.
 è Cured obscure 'zombie progress window' phenomenon observed when the user is dragging the window in the moment when it automatically closes.
v1∑24ﬂ 11th July 2001
 è *Really* fixed 'zombie progress window' bug, though I was forced to hack DrWimp to do it...
 è Fixed newly-introduced bug which caused program to crash if no configuration options had been set or saved (i.e. a 'clean' distribution version!)
v1∑25 2nd October 2001
 è *Really* fixed configuration option bug...
 è No longer causes errors when <Choices$Write> is not writable, i.e. when FSLock is in use.
v1∑26 22nd December 2001
 è Added a menu allowing the text of up to 10 previous searches to be re-entered.
 è 'Restore' button now /really/ restores last saved version from disc rather than reverting to factory defaults!
 è Options are now read from <Choices$Path> on startup, rather than from <Choices$Write>.

Textseek 1∑30
v1∑30 6th October 2002
 è Search history menu is now remembered between sessions.
 è Machine code revised to give true case-insensitive searching, handling accented characters correctly.
 è The settings of the 'Allow text to match middle of words', 'Ignore case' and 'Treat ? and * as wildcards' options, as indicated on the progress window, are saved and restored along with the search text to which they apply.
 è Now that these three options are associated with specific searches in the search history file, they have been moved out of the options window and onto the main window, as three little buttons to the left of the 'Find text:' writable icon in the same format as those shown on the progress window.   The options are also no longer saved as global options in the Config file.
 è Repeated searches for the same string no longer cause string to appear at bottom of menu in capitals(!)
 è Selecting an item from the menu now moves it up the history menu instead of entering a new copy at the head of the list.
 è Case-insensitive searches no longer cause the title of the progress window to be displayed in capitals.
 è Upgraded DrWimp library version from 3.58 to 3.63, carefully copying across the anti-zombie-window hack...!
 è Fixed longstanding serious bug in machine code - the text displayed in the throwback window was being clipped to the nearest low-ASCII character rather than to the nearest non-ASCII character, causing the program occasionally to hang up when searching non-text files.
 è Info window no longer flickers if you click MENU over it (don't ask me why anyone would even want to try....)
 è Minor bugfix - response to dragging of objects to iconbar is now disabled while search is running.
 è Textseek no longer crashes if you attempt to restore saved options before actually having saved any!
v1.31 10th October 2002
 è It is now possible to internationalise the application (e.g. it uses ResFind and a messages file).
 è Altered some of the interactive help messages and fixed help on pop-up filetypes window, which was often erroneous.
v1∑32 17th January 2003
 è Now supplied with updated 32-bit (Iyonix-compatible) SlidingHeap module.
 è Bugfix for DrWimp library: DrWimp was requesting an entire window+icons definition into a block that was too small to hold it, periodically crashing Textseek without warning!
v1.33 5th February 2003
 è Fixed bug where, when Common filetypes menu held (n) entries, clicking on (n+1)th entry in filetypes menu performed "Edit menu" action.
 è /Really/ fixed longstanding bug in pop-up window creation - program should be much more stable.
 è Corrected bugs in handling of missing configuration files.
 è Put in hack to deal with IcnClipBrd using CHR$(0) to terminate indirected data and the Wimp using CHR$(13)
v1.34 13th March 2003
è Switched to BasCompress in place of StrongBS - machine-code output is more Iyonix-friendly. 
è Patched bug where opening a directory while a search was running caused the name of that directory briefly to appear in the progress window display!

Textseek 1∑40
v1.40 September/October 2003
è Major restructuring of main window in order to allow longer search path/filetype list icons
è Textseek can now detokenise and search BASIC files for keywords as well as variable/function names! (Thanks go to Guttorm Vik/Erik Groenhuis for providing relevant assembler routines)
è Added Choices entry to main menu and removed Configuration button from main window
è Any file loading errors encountered while performing a search are now logged in the throwback window, under the name of the file affected
è Fixed serious bug dating (I suspect) from v1∑23;  searching for a string *beginning* with a multiple-character wildcard '*' no longer crashes the machine code!
è Patched bugs where repeating the same search caused the last entry in the file history to swap with the second entry, and where selecting the last in a menu of two entries failed to bring it to the top correctly
è Added file history menu along the same principles as the search history menu
è You can click MENU over any of the three long icons in main window
è Application main menu now accessible only from iconbar (to avoid confusion with above)
è Added hex filetypes to filetypes menu (by request) as new option
è Corrected RISC OS 3.1 bug where spurious extra width including the flag bytes at the start of the string was being included in menu entries
è Patched bug where an error exit to a certain function was using ENDPROC instead of "=0"
è Textseek can no longer load saved configuration options from versions prior to 1∑30 (Oct 2002) - due to multiple options added/removed over the years, the relevant procedure was becoming too complex (and I long since lost any material with which to test that it actually worked!)   If a very old Config file is present, it will silently be ignored.
è ADJUST-click on Accept in Choices window now updates settings but keeps window open;  ADJUST-click on Cancel now restores settings while keeping window open
è Choices window no longer closes whenever main window is closed
è Main window no longer re-opens by default on top of results (displayed in throwback window) when search ends.   ADJUST-clicking on the Search icon will keep it open while the search is running, although the Search icon will be greyed out until it has ended.
è Updated SlidingHeap module provided to version 2.12

v1∑41 6th November 2003
è Program now tries harder to avoid generating 'could not save search history' errors, e.g. if disc is write protected or full in addition to when FSLock is in use.
è Increased Wimpslot (to 68k) to avoid occasional "Too many nested structures/No room for this FN" errors from BASIC when large menu data blocks  had been allocated.
è Now checks specifically for "Not a BASIC file" errors generated by detokenisation code, and reports them to throwback window instead of triggering the machine-code-error register dump routine (neither appropriate nor helpful!)

v1∑42 11th December 2003
 è Program now calls Wimp_Poll from within machine-code every time a search match is found, to prevent long queues of throwback messages accumulating.   This should prevent the desktop hanging up after large numbers of matches have been found within a single file while the throwback handler catches up with a long queue of requests!
   Note that as a result Textseek can 'miss' desktop events despite appearing to multitask;  currently the machine-code poll loop only responds to dragging the progress window, quitting the application forcibly from the Task Manager window or clicking on the 'Stop' button to abort the search.   All other desktop actions are registered by the program but silently ignored.

v1∑43 22nd February 2004
 è Bugfix:  when the search text history menu was full, the last item on the search path history menu was not getting saved.  This could lead to a steady loss of <history items=>mainsearchhistory> from the bottom of this menu between sessions.
v1∑43b 27th June 2004
 è Discovered R7 validation string and altered templates accordingly!

v1∑44 30th January 2006
 è Bugfix:   changed BASIC detokenisation code to avoid possibility of confusing line numbers with end-of-line markers, e.g. line 10/CHR$(10).   In exceptional cases this used to cause up to 3 characters to be stripped from the start of the displayed search result!
 è Added support for detokenising files of type &F7A (Basic26), as used by Aemulor.
 è Added 'meta' data in HelpScan format rather than Castle's system variables, since HelpScan copes intelligently with StrongHelp manuals.
 è Upgraded to DrWimp 4∑30 for compatibility with the A9 computer.

v1∑45 22nd June 2009
 è Bugfix: yet another tweak to Choices handling.   Textseek will no longer fail to save search history on exit if choices are being read from one directory but written back to a different directory that does not exist yet, e.g. if Choices$Path points to a default configuration on a remote server and Choices$Write saves to a brand-new local setup /and/ the user has not saved any other choices from Textseek yet!

v1∑46 16th July 2009
 è Added ability to ignore specific files/directories by name ò intended for SVN use, but could be used more generally.   This does *not* support wildcarded searches, e.g. you cannot ignore all files ending /o...
 è Removed 79-character limit on search path icon ò you can now start searches from lower down in the directory tree. This may lead to very wide search history menus!
 è ADJUST-click on iconbar now opens Choices window.
 è Corrected the numbering of the Help tokens in the Messages file, which had been broken for some years: the correct help messages are now associated with the correct icons/menus!

v1∑46ﬂ	 	28th August 2009
	è	Increased the space reserved for machine code due to compilation errors.

v1∑47	 	5th July 2015
	è	Textseek now ignores errors caused by illegal characters in remotely-accessed filenames on other filesystems. 
	è	Fix by Martin Avison: BASIC detokenize no longer crashes the application if it scans corrupt BASIC programs.

v1∑47ﬂ	 	5th September 2015
	è	Removed unused code in PROCmakemenu generating array of pointers for use by OS_HeapSort (OS_HeapSort does this automatically)
	è	Patched filetype menu routines to cope with case of filetype name having been set to a blank string - N.B. produces inconsistent effects in that such a filetype will show the correct icon (if defined) only if hex values are being displayed, and a blank or query icon otherwise.